# Spinach-Simulations
Spinach simulations rely on MATLAB scripts to simulate a variety of NMR experiments.
Our focus is on spin relaxation and spin relaxation experiments.  Most have been undertaken in cooperation with Ilya Kuprov of the University of South Hampton, UK 

The attached scripts have the following functions:

Relaxation_matrix...  calculates a relaxation matrix in a spherical tensor basis set using coordinates from an MD trajectory and other parameters read from an Excel workbook.  It uses routines from Matsunaga's mdtoolbox to select a subset of coordinates from the trajectory.  It calls the Prepare_xlsx.. script to read and write derived parameters to the workbook.  It then calls the ngce... script to calculate elements of the matrix using numerical integration routines segment by segment on the trajectory.  It calculates a Redfield matrix based on a single selected frame and plots a comparison of Redfield and numerical matrices.  Both matrices are saved for future use. A example workbook is included.

The noe_... scripts use the matrices and data from the workbook to calculate selective inversion NOEs in a manner modeled on other NOE scripts in the Spinach package.  One script, ..7 observes a selected spin from the subset of coordinates and successively inverts all other spins.  the  ..8 script inverts the selected spin and observes all others.  The calculated NOEs for a list of mixing times are written to the workbook.

The scripts involving methyl groups are directed at building a scaled moment model for methyl protons that can be used to approximate actual methyl - external proton NOEs.  The "static" scripts calculate NOEs using scaled or unscaled (gamma 1) interactions based on and isolated spin-pair calculation.  The ngce_test.. script calculates a relaxation matrix using Kuprov's numerical integration method and a simulated MD trajectory based on a rotational diffusion model.  Methyl rotation is taken into account by averaging over 3 rotamers.  The noe_buildup script uses the matrix from the ncge script to plot NOE curves for methyl protons on inverting an external spin.  It also uses "regularization" to solve some problems with long time anomalous behavior that shows up for slow tumbling methyl groups because of positive elements in the R matrix. 
